examples : TUD
lib/ldso/Makefile : TUD
lib/ldso/crt0.S : TUD
lib/ldso/emul_linux.c : TUD
lib/ldso/emul_linux.h : TUD
lib/ldso/infopage.c : TUD
lib/ldso/infopage.h : TUD
lib/ldso/dl-defs.h : TUD
lib/ldso/dl-elf.c : BSD-like
lib/ldso/dl-hash.c : BSD-like
lib/ldso/dl-startup.c : BSD-like
lib/ldso/dl-startup.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/dl-syscall.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/elfinterp.c : BSD-like
lib/ldso/helper.c : TUD
lib/ldso/resolve.S : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/elf.h : LGPL
lib/ldso/include/link.h : LGPL
lib/ldso/include/dlfcn.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/dl-hash : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/dl-elf.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/features.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/ldso.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/stdint.h : TUD
lib/ldso/include/unsecvars.h : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/ldso/ : BSD-like
lib/ldso/include/sysdeps/ : BSD-like
lib/libdl/ : BSD-like
